---
title: Oculus Go Controller
---
The Oculus Go Controller is an orientation-tracked input device available through Unreal as a Motion Controller. 

## Handling Controller Input with Blueprints

Your application can use Blueprints to access every input event generated by the Oculus Go controller. For a full description of these blueprints, please see [Mapping Oculus Controller Input to Blueprint Events](/documentation/unreal/latest/concepts/unreal-controller-input-mapping-reference/ "This reference section describes how Oculus controller actions (such as touchpad presses) map to the corresponding events that can be handled via blueprints.").

## Oculus Go Controller Usage

For a discussion of best practices for the Oculus Go controller, see [Gear VR Controller Best Practices](/blog/gear-vr-controller-best-practices/). This blog article was written for Gear VR prior to the release of Oculus Go. However, the best practices that this article promotes apply to the Oculus Go controller.

For instructions on how to add a Motion Controller component to your Pawn or Character, see [Motion Controller Component Setup](https://docs.unrealengine.com/latest/INT/Platforms/VR/MotionController/) in Epic’s Unreal documentation. Epic has also provided a detailed training tutorial called [Setting Up VR Motion Controllers](https://docs.unrealengine.com/latest/INT/Videos/PLZlv_N0_O1gY7G589Z3I5-Dz7AdFSIWaG/6ALnsdQnkVQ/). 

Oculus Go locates the controller relative to the user by using a body model to estimate the controller’s position. Whether the controller is visualized on the left or right side of the body is determined by left-handedness versus right-handedness, which is specified by users during controller pairing.

Orientation tracking is handled automatically by the Motion Controller Component. If you need to query the controller orientation, you can query the Motion Controller rotation.

Motion Controller Components must be specified as either left or right controllers when they are added, and each Oculus Go Controller button mapping has a left/right equivalent. However, any button click sends both left and right events, so the setting you choose when you add the Motion Controller component has no effect.

## Input Sample

You will find an example of the Oculus Go controller input in our Input sample available in the directory <install>/Samples/Oculus. Please see the sample and its Level Blueprint for a full illustration of how to use the controller in your game, including the button mappings. 

## Oculus Go Controller Swiping Gestures

For the Oculus Go controller, the user interface of your VR experience should follow these natural scrolling and swiping gestures:

* Swipe up: Pull content upward. Equivalent to scrolling down.
* Swipe down: Pull content downward. Equivalent to scrolling up.
* Swipe left: Pull content left or go to the next item or page. 
* Swipe right: Pull content right or go to the previous item or page.
