---
title: Button State
---
The input button state is reported based on the HID interrupts arriving to the computer and can be polled by calling ovr\_GetInputState.

The following example shows how input can be used in addition to hand poses:

double displayMidpointSeconds = ovr\_GetPredictedDisplayTime(session, frameIndex); ovrTrackingState trackState = ovr\_GetTrackingState(session, displayMidpointSeconds, ovrTrue); ovrPosef handPoses[2]; ovrInputState inputState; // Grab hand poses useful for rendering hand or controller representation handPoses[ovrHand\_Left] = trackState.HandPoses[ovrHand\_Left].ThePose; handPoses[ovrHand\_Right] = trackState.HandPoses[ovrHand\_Right].ThePose; if (OVR\_SUCCESS(ovr\_GetInputState(session, ovrControllerType\_Touch, &inputState))) { if (inputState.Buttons & ovrButton\_A) { // Handle A button being pressed } if (inputState.HandTrigger[ovrHand\_Left] > 0.5f) { // Handle hand grip... } } The ovrInputState struct includes the following fields: 

FieldTypeDescriptionTimeInSecondsdoubleSystem time when the controller state was last updated.ControllerTypeunsigned intDescribed by ovrControllerType. Indicates which controller types are present; you can check the ovrControllerType\_LTouch bit, for example, to verify that the left touch controller is connected. Options include:

* ovrControllerType\_None (0x0000)
* ovrControllerType\_LTouch (0x0001)
* ovrControllerType\_RTouch (0x0002)
* ovrControllerType\_Touch (0x0003)
* ovrControllerType\_Remote (0x0004)
* ovrControllerType\_XBox (0x0010)
Buttonsunsigned intButton state described by ovrButtons. A corresponding bit is set if the button is pressed.Touchesunsigned intTouch values for buttons and sensors as indexed by ovrTouch. A corresponding bit is set if users finger is touching the button or is in a gesture state detectable by the controller.IndexTrigger[2]floatLeft and right finger trigger values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range 0.0 to 1.0f. A value of 1.0 means that the trigger is fully pressed.HandTrigger[2]floatLeft and right grip button values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range 0.0 to 1.0f. Hand trigger is often used to grab items. A value of 1.0 means that the trigger is fully pressed.Thumbstick[2]ovrVector2fHorizontal and vertical thumbstick axis values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range -1.0f to 1.0f. The API automatically applies the dead zone, so developers don’t need to handle it explicitly.IndexTriggerNoDeadzone[2]floatLeft and right finger trigger values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range 0.0 to 1.0f, without a deadzone. A value of 1.0 means that the trigger is fully pressed.HandTriggerNoDeadzone[2]floatLeft and right grip button values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range 0.0 to 1.0f, without a deadzone. The grip button, formerly known as the hand trigger, is often used to grab items. A value of 1.0 means that the button is fully pressed.ThumbstickNoDeadzone[2]ovrVector2fHorizontal and vertical thumbstick axis values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range -1.0f to 1.0f, without a deadzone. IndexTriggerRaw[2]floatRaw left and right grip button values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range 0.0 to 1.0f, without a deadzone or filter. A value of 1.0 means that the trigger is fully pressed.HandTriggerRaw[2]floatLeft and right grip button values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range 0.0 to 1.0f, without a deadzone or filter. The grip button, formerly known as the hand trigger, is often used to grab items. A value of 1.0 means that the button is fully pressed.ThumbstickRaw[2]ovrVector2fHorizontal and vertical thumbstick axis values (ovrHand\_Left and ovrHand\_Right), in the range -1.0f to 1.0f, without a deadzone or filter. The ovrInputState structure includes the current state of buttons, thumb sticks, triggers and touch sensors on the controller. You can check whether a button is pressed by checking against one of the button constants, as was done for ovrButton\_A in the above example. The following is a list of binary buttons available on touch controllers: 

**Button Constant****Description**ovrButton\_AA button on the right Touch controller.ovrButton\_BB button on the right Touch controller.ovrButton\_RThumbThumb stick button on the right Touch controller.ovrButton\_XX button on the left Touch controller.ovrButton\_YY button on the left Touch controller.ovrButton\_LThumbThumb stick button on the left Touch controller.ovrButton\_EnterEnter button on the left Touch controller. This is equivalent to the Start button on the Xbox controller.